Smart calculator (#1566)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/smart_calculator/README.md

---
name: 'Human-Like Calculator Using Python'
description: 'A calculator where you type a statement and get the answer!'
author: '@iamsid47'
img: https://cloud-p6k9fe5b9.vercel.app/0smart-calc.png
---

## Human-like calculator

> In this workshop, we are gonna make a calculator which can add, multiply, divide and subtract two numbers. But the catch is that instead of just adding those two numbers, we give it a statement!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this workshop, we are going to make a calculator which can add, multiply, divide and subtract two numbers. But the catch is that instead of just adding those two numbers, we give it a statement!
```

Also what exactly is a "statement"?

For example: *Hey calc, can you give me the lcm of 9 and 3* and it will provide you with the LCM (least common multiple) of those two numbers.

> You can try it out on Repl.it. Just click [Here](https://repl.it/@iamsid47/calc#main.py)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try the final product on Repl.it: just click [here](https://repl.it/@iamsid47/calc#main.py).
```

> ## How it feels?

Reviewer: Weird title, doesn't make much sense

![How it works](https://github.com/iamsid47/hangman-pics/blob/main/how-calc-works.png)

## Let's get started

![Create a repl](https://cloud-p6k9fe5b9.vercel.app/1human-like-calc-repl.png)

Let's head over to [Repl.it](https://repl.it) and create a *repl*. Choose **Python** and name your project.

> First, we want our calculator to act a bit human. It should not output just numbers. It should welcome me when I run it. Or it shall tell me if it does not know about a calculation. For the same, we will create some responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we want our calculator to act like a human. It should not just output numbers. It should welcome the user when they run it, and it should tell me if it does not understand me. To achieve this, we will create some responses.
```

```python
response=['Welcome to smart calculator','My name is Calc', 
'Thanks for enjoy with me ','Sorry ,this is beyond my ability'] 
```

> Now, for our calculator to calculate something, we need to tell it in some or the other way. Since we don't want our user to tell it in more of a numerical language, let's write in some logic.

Reviewer: This sentence is confusing, and its grammar is off.
